We will compare two different approaches,
which we can apply, for example, to
market sizing, to the calculation
of the size of the market, but
which can be applied to estimates
of different types.
Look, we start with the traditional
approach, which is the top-down approach,
which is the one people usually
apply, and we see it in the Samsung
Time.
What we do is from above, we start
from the total market, which we
will think, well, because they are
200 million in the world.
And what we do is to say, well,
of those 200 million we can,
our target market can be a
10%, which is what we can
get, because by geographical
expansion, etc.
It is 20 million.
And we are applying hypotheses,
and of those 20 million, that
is our target market, as we have
a good proposal, etc., because
we can reach in the short
term, in the medium term,
a quota of 10%, so we will
sell two million euros next
year.
As you can see, it’s a rationale from
above down, which is something
you have to do.
But what is happening to this?
In many cases, it is what
we call the milk fairy tale
in Spain.
The only thing that happens is that
the paper supports everything, Excel
supports everything.
You can put the numbers you want,
put the hypotheses in Excel
and you get X million.
This is very common, because that,
in financial projections, etc.
So what we recommend is that,
in addition to the top-down approach,
we incorporate, or at least
make a check with a slightly
different reasoning, it
is a more inductive reasoning,
which is of “Yes” in what consists
is that, instead of going from
above, which is the total market,
the models, the market studies,
etc., we start down and what we
do is to fix ourselves or start
from concrete data from
the observation around us,
the pace at which we are
capturing customers, what
is happening, what has happened
in the last year, etc.
These are the most important points and
from there we can draw conclusions.
From this point of view, we will be
able to extrapolate and reach the
size of the market.
You probably don’t understand
what I mean, but I’ll give you
an example, a simple example.
Put that we are a tax consultancy
and then in the marketing plan we
are deciding that we want to
address a new segment of customers,
which are startups.
So what is the usual?
Well, because the usual thing is to
look for some information, imagine,
and quantify a little the total of
the market and we will do so in
terms of number of startups, of
companies, not in terms of business
volume.
And we say, well, because there are
thousands of startups in Spain, for example,
or there are thousands of startups to
which we can access, this is our SAM,
and we say, well, because as we have
resources, we have a good track record
and so on, we project that we will
capture the 10% by the figure that
is.
As you can see, we start from above
and we are applying hypotheses, and
at the end what can come out is that
you say, well, because I will capture
then 100 startups, that will be my
business in the medium term, in a year,
two years, three years, whatever
it is.
Well, you can believe it, but
now we will do it in reverse,
now we will do it from below
up, then what we will do is, the
first thing we will do is, instead
of thinking about offering
10 startups we know, to
10, and it turns out that of those
10 we buy one.
We already have more reliable
information on what to build, we
have a 10% conversion rate
on all those to whom we tell the
proposal, with whom we sit.
Well, now let’s think, well, then,
and at what pace can we go capturing?
For it turns out that we can capture,
that is, at what pace can we
go having new meetings with,
how many can we offer it?
We can offer it to 20 per
month.
Well, if we have already tried
that of every 10 we tell, one buy
us and we can offer it to
20 a month, in the end we can capture
two a month, which are 24
a year.
In the first year we will capture
24 startups, which over the 1000
we were seeing, which is the total,
is 2.4%, as you see, the
data, as you see, the way to
reason them completely different.
Rather than thinking about market
studies, aggregated data,
etc., what we do is look around
and start from direct
observation.
And we draw conclusions from that
direct observation and then
extrapolate and well, because
we can calculate the market
share we will have, etc.